Settings - A flexible configuration system for NVFlare
======================================================

Overview
--------
Settings is a flexible and extensible configuration system designed for NVFlare applications.
The main features are,

* **Multiple sources**: The configurable parameters can come from OS environment variables,
  command-line arguments, multiple configuration files. The parameters with the same key
  from different sources can override each other following a predefined order of precedence.
* **Profiles**: Different configuration files can be selected at run-time based on profiles.
* **Multiple formats**: Configuration files can be in JSON or YAML. New format can be
  supported easily by implementing a reader following the **Settings Reader Spec**.
* **Loosely matched keys**: For environment variables and command-line arguments, the keys
  are only matched by alphanumeric characters (case-insensitive) so different naming convention
  can be followed. e.g ``FLARE_LOG_LEVEL`` and ``flare.log_level`` are the same key


Terminology
-----------

* **Settings**: This refers to the whole configuration system including command line arguments,
  OS environment variables and all the configuration files.
* **Settings Files**: This is the configuration file meant to be changed at runtime,
  Usually resides in ``~/.nvflare`` folder. e.g. ``~/.nvflare/admin.yml``. It can be in any
  supported format (json, yaml, etc)
* **Configuration Files**: The JSON files generated by provisioning tool. Those files should be
  treated as static or read-only, should not be changed once deployed. The changes to those files
  can be overwritten when new starter kit ZIP file is deployed.
* **Profiles**: Profiles can be used to select settings files at run-time. Each profile has its
  own settings file by appending **_profile_name** to the base settings file name. Multiple
  profiles can be active at the same time. They are specified as a comma separated list using
  key **flare_profiles**.
* **Parameter**: Each individual configuration entry. A parameter may be present in multiple sources.
* **Key**: The key for the parameter. For **Flat** source (like env-var, cmd-line or property files),
  a loosely-matching canonicalization is used. For **Dict** source, dot notation is used, e.g
  ``admin.overseer_agent.path``

Settings Sources
----------------

Settings parameters can be configured from multiple settings sources.  Sources are handled
differently based on its type:

* **Flat**: Simple name-value pairs (an one-level dict). This is designed for simple sources like
  cmd-line, env-var and properties file. The keys are canonicalized for loose-matching.
* **Dict**: Nested dict for structured sources like JSON or YAML. The key is the path of the
  element in dot-notation, e.g. ``admin.overseer_agent.path``.

Here are all the sources supported, in order of priority,

1. **Environment Variables**: This is a flat source with loosely matched keys
2. Command line arguments: Another flat source. Argument list is converted to a dict with
   loosely matched keys. Both single and double dashes are treated the same.
3. Profiles: Setting files for each profile, like ``~/.nvflare/admin_test.yml``. In the order they
   are specified in key ``flare_profiles``, which is a comma separated list, e.g.
   ``-flare_profiles ha,prod``
4. Settings file: The default settings file, like ``admin.yml``
5. Configuration files: Any other configuration files, in the order they are listed, like
   ``fed_server.json``


For example, when admin client is started with following command-line argument::

    --flare_profiles ha,prod

The search order for parameters will be,

1. env-var
2. cmd-line
3. ~/.nvflare/admin_ha.yml (or .json)
4. ~/.nvflare/admin_prod.yml (or .json)
5. ~/.nvflare/admin.yml (or .json)
6. /workspace/fed_admin.json

EXAMPLES
--------

Following code snippet demonstrates how the Settings are used::

    # Runtime settings only has 2 sources (env-var and cmd-line).
    # It is needed to retrieve workspace location from command-line
    # The benefit over ArgumentParser is that the location can also
    # be set from env-var
    runtime = RuntimeSettings()
    workspace = runtime.get("workspace")
    config = runtime.get("fed_admin")
    admin_config = os.path.join(workspace, config)

    # FlareSettings is a sub-class of RuntimeSettings, it also loads
    # all the configuration files.
    # Notice the settings file has no extension. It will accept either .yml or .json
    settings = FlareSettings("~/.nvflare/admin", admin_config)

    # With this call, the log level can be controlled from multiple
    # places and each logger can have its own levels
    settings.set_log_levels()

    # Typical usage of retrieving a parameter
    overseer_path = settings.get("admin.overseer_agent.path")

    # With detailed information, for debugging purposes
    source, timestamp, overseer_path = settings.get_detail("admin.overseer_agent.path")

    # Bracket notation is also supported, it's an alias for get() method
    download_dir = settings["admin.download_dir"]

The behavior of application can be modified by changing configurable parameters in many different ways,
without changing code (including shell script). Here are just a few examples,

* To change the value of ``admin.overseer_agent.path`` defined in fed_admin.json, add this to
  command-line::

    -admin_overseer_agent_path nvflare.test.TestAgent

* This can also be achieved by declaring an env-var::

    export ADMIN_OVERSEER_AGENT_PATH=nvflare.test.TestAgent

* The root logger level can be changed in 3 different places, env-var, cmd-line and admin.yml. e.g. ::

    export FLARE_LOG_LEVEL=info
    --flare_log_level info

* To set log levels for specific loggers, add this to ``~/.nvflare/admin.yml``::

    flare:
        log_level: info # Root log level
        # Only enable debug for 2 loggers
        log_levels:
            settings: debug
            FLContext: debug

* To test HA mode, one can copy ``fed_admin_HA.json`` to ``~/.nvflare/admin_ha.json`` and activate
  the profile by declaring an env-var::

    export FLARE_PROFILES=ha

  or adding an argument to the command-line::

    --flare_profiles ha

